So let's use the Athena service
to query data from an S3 buckets.
So I'm going to launch the query editor,
and here we have access to our UI,
and before we run our first query,
we need to set up a query result location in Amazon S3.
So let's edit the setting.
In here you must enter an S3 bucket where you're going
to put your query results.
So I'm going to go into the S3 console
and I'm going to create a bucket.
So I'll call this one, AWS Athena
Stephane, I am in EU Central One, V two.
Alright, so this should be a unique bucket name.
I'm going to just create this bucket.
Okay, so my bucket is now created, click on view details
and I'm going to just copy this right here
and paste it here, so S3.
And you can make sure that you can browse S3? Yes.
And we can also type, for example, Athena here.
And we'll take this one.
Same method, same result,
but this is a bit safer to not make any typo.
Alright, so I'm going to save this
and this is where my query results are going to be saved.
Now in our editor, we're going to first run our queries
and we're going to run our queries on the specific bucket,
which is our access log.
So I'm going to have my S3 access logs
that I have bucket here and I want to query
all my objects in this bucket,
so as you can see, they're here.
So what I need to do is that I need to go
into my code editor right here
and then we first create a database.
So we here under S3 advanced Athena S3 Access Log
that's SQL.
We have created a database S3 access logs DB.
So this is going to create a database here.
And so, as you can see, on the left hand side now,
I have the default database
and now I have my S3 access logs DB.
So this is the one I want to select
and we have created it from within Athena.
Next we run a query and this is a query to create
a table in Athena to represent our access logs.
And so here it is.
And so I'm going to first remove the first line.
Okay, so this query, I got it from the Amazon S3
and Athena documentation, which gives you this entire query.
And the only thing you have to modify is
to actually change the location.
So we need to have the target bucket name
and the prefix in there.
So actually if you go in here and you go to properties,
we have the bucket name right here.
So I'm just going to paste this in, like this.
And for the prefix, we actually don't need anything right
now because it seems that in my bucket,
all my objects are at the top level.
But if you had a folder, you need to add the prefix as well
by adding a slash and then the name of the prefix.
But for now I'm good.
So I'm going to run this query
and we need to have a trailing slash at the end.
So let's add a trailing slash and run this query again.
Okay, so my table has now been created
and you can see on the left hand side that we do have access
to our table as well as all the fields we have created.
So what I can do now is click on these three dots
and then just click on preview table.
And this is going to query 10 rows from my data.
And so if I scroll down, you can see here
that I have 10 results
and we can see the bucket owner, the bucket,
the request date time, the IP,
the requester, request ID, and so on.
So this is very handy because
while we get a lot of information directly coming
from our data in Amazon S3.
Admittedly it is way easier to use this than to look
within all these files individually.
So Athena makes it super easy for us.
But so we can do more advanced queries.
For example, I'm going to just create
a new query sheet right here.
You can do some aggregations.
So here we're going to count all the requests by HTP status
and by request URI operation.
So this is this kind of analytics
and statistics you may want to run on your table.
So we're going to run this query
and it takes a bit more time because
it looks at all your data.
And so it scans about 30 megabytes of data
and as we can see, we see that we get 404 to B142,
head 200 to B101.
We have empty about 300,000 empty rows
or 200,000 empty rows and so on.
So we get just the results of what we're interested into.
So if we're looking at, for example, not found errors,
we say, hey, we're not supposed to have any,
not found errors, but we see 142, maybe there's a problem.
This is the kind of analysis you would do
by running these queries.
You can also have a look at unauthorized query for two.
For example, to see if someone is trying
to get unauthorized access to to your bucket.
So I'm running this one because 403
is the unauthorized thing,
and I'm looking at all these rows
and look like, okay, indeed,
a lot of these rows represent unauthorized access
and I can look into them and see if that was made
on purpose or what that means.
So hopefully, that is all very interesting to you.
The idea here is that I just used the Athena service
to query my data in Amazon S3, very easily,
without setting up any kind of server.
It's all done serverless.
And all we had to do is to create our database first
and then create our table within a database.
And we were good to go to use SQL language to query
our data directly from within Athena.
So it's one of the easiest and greatest service of AWS.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.